# Vault

The Vault crate contains logic and abstractions for the storage layer of this system. Importantly, the storage layer doesn’t actually define a standard shape for storing the data, instead it defines a method of reading, writing and viewing the data and the system may use any in-memory data collection type. For instance, the Proof of Concept Command Line Tool uses a hashmap wrapped in a RwLock and an Arc as its memory based data storage and the data itself is cached as bytes in that hashmap. The secure data should not be saved in any kind of persistent database; instead persistence is achieved through snapshots as detailed below.

Vault defines a format of ordered chains where in each Record contains an ID, a Transaction, some metadata, a counter and the sealed data. Each of these chains starts out with a single Initial Transaction type that contains no data aside from the owner's ID. Every proceeding transaction must be a direct descendant of this transaction for it to be valid. Also, the counter is incremented every time an event occurs on the data. In this way, the system can determine which piece of data is the latest version while still maintaining a history of the data’s state over time.

Because the data is versioned, a chain should ideally maintain data that is related. For example, if a key is placed into the first Data Transaction of a chain, the proceeding transactions should be metadata or changes to the key. Revocation Transactions can also be created to revoke a transaction.  In this way, the vault can stage a proposed deletion for some transaction before the data is deleted. When a garbage collection is preformed, the Revocation transaction and the corresponding Data Transaction are removed from the vault.

The data in the Vault can be encrypted using either symmetric encryption or asymmetric encryption. With symmetric encryption, a key is assigned to each chain and that key is needed to unlock the data.  With asymmetric encryption, the key can be defined as a private key and each of the transaction’s IDs could be a public key. A secure random nonce is generated and the data is sealed using the key and the nonce. The nonce is then concatenated to the sealed bytes where it is stored in the data structure. Also, the data in each transaction is a non-descript vector of bytes. As a result of this, it is entirely possible to a complex data structure into the Transaction so long as it can be converted to a binary format.

A Base64 encoder/decoder was also created. This base64 encoder uses a url/file safe character set. Information regarding this character set can be found in RFC 4648 from the internet society. As a small side note, if an ID contains a `-` character it can cause issues for the CLI. Wrapping the ID in quotes should resolve this issue though.


## Fuzzing

The Vault crate includes a fuzz client. The main purpose of this fuzzer is to test the crate and see how it holds up to random inputs and random transactions. The Fuzzer generates a key and then creates a specified amount of clients. Each client is given a unique random ID along with its own data chain. The clients perform random transactions upon their chains based on a value generated by the random number generator. Also a machine object has the ability to randomly take ownership of a foreign chain at any time. Two global storage hashmaps are created and after a specified amount of cycles, the fuzz client checks to see if they are still consistent. This fuzz client was tested for a stretch of 2 days without issue.
